What is your background in gardening/farming/design? I grew up in the Soviet Union,
where my family grew fruits and vegetables, and raised pigs and chickens. I became
interested in aquaponics and sustainable gardening. My backyard has an aquaponics
garden and pond, a food forest, raised garden beds, mushroom patches, and a composting
box. I want to add a chicken tractor and beehives. I have also helped others with their garden designs.

How do you want to integrate permaculture into your life?
I want to use it for personal design/installation.
I want to become a designer/installer.
I want to incorporate it into my Edible Estate software and earn income from it.

Client Names and Ages: X and Y, 39 and 38 (clients and property owners are the same); children were also involved in the interview.

Client Occupations: X is a web developer, Y is a homemaker.
 
Amount of time available for maintaining property: 2-7 hours a week.
 
Initial Budget for implementation: depends on how long we stay here: up to $1k short-term, $10k or more long-term.

Who has the ability to make veto decisions for the site? X and Y, with input from the children on the issues.

What’s the client’s dream for the property? Improvement of food systems (and a food garden for everyone), food independence, and a playground for bodyweight workouts and fun.

General Lifestyle: Moderate activity and moderate travel.
   
Special requirements: We live in an HOA neighborhood, so no chickens are allowed, and any moderate projects need to be approved.
 
Hobbies: art, music, sewing, reading writing, walking, gardening.
 
How long do residents plan to live at this site? Either a few months, or a few more years. It all depends on whether we will be able to sell our house for a reasonable price later this year.

Client’s Desired Outcomes
Water systems 
1) Existing: aquaponics, city water supply
2) Desired: water storage and water filtration (long-term)

Lighting: paths, buildings (existing and future needs)
1) Existing: just outdoor lights
2) Desired: perhaps a lighted path near the food forest.

Structures:
1) Existing: house and garage
2) Desired: greenhouse, chicken tractor (if HOA allows), shed (if needed)

Heating, cooling, electricity
1) Existing: solar panels, AC, gas furnace
2) Desired: self-generated natural gas (long-term)

Utility areas: clothes line, recycle and trash, wood, service equipment
1) Existing: city recycling and trash
2) Desired: zero-waste changes, outside clothes rack (small), rocket stove

Children's areas: (existing and future needs)
1) Existing: sandbox and trampoline
2) Desired: playground (swing, slide, bodyweight workout fixtures)

Client’s Desired Outcomes (continued)

Level of food self-reliance (present and future):
1) Existing: 25% self-reliance; regular diet
2) Desired: 90+%

Does income need to be produced from the property? 
1) Existing: No
2) Desired: not necessarily

Compost and recycling systems?
1) Existing: compost box, city recycling
2) Desired: better compost, no (or minimum) waste

Livestock
1) Existing: fish
2) Desired: chickens (when HOA allows), bees

Pets, Woodlot, Vehicles: N/A

Wildlife enhancement
1) Existing: a few birds and lizards
2) Desired: more of the same

Summary

What is the client’s vision for the site?
We have been steadily improving our backyard for the last few years. We have installed an aquaponics system, a small food forest (including mushroom patches), and a compost bin in our yard (along with conventional raised beds). We also want to move towards a zero-waste future. Our vision is for our site to be a place to live, work, play and exercise, produce most of our food, and enjoy beauty.


What are the challenges or limitations that the client has encountered on this site?
Our HOA forbids chickens and demands approval of all big changes. This means we won’t be able to incorporate a chicken tractor. Along with most other families, we find ourselves wishing for more time to implement the improvements that  we dream up.

What are your goals as the designer for this project?
I have two-fold goals as the designer, depending on whether we sell the house:
Minimal cost and time improvements in the next few months, after which we will know if we can sell the house.
More extensive improvements if we are not able to sell the house: build a greenhouse to be able to produce food year-round, install a playground for both kids and adults, and other, smaller improvements.


What are the three biggest cultural / social / economic challenges in your region? Explain.
Fast growth: the Research Triangle Park (RTP) area in North Carolina has been experiencing tremendous population and economic growth in the last few decades. This has put a strain on resources and infrastructure. Locals complain about too many people and too much traffic.
White-collar-heavy: a lot of the jobs in the area are research- and software-related.
Medium inequality: although the area is relatively well-off, there is economic inequality present.

What are the greatest strengths or opportunities in your region?
Fast growth: this is not only a challenge, but a tremendous opportunity for rising wages.
Low density: many homes have their own yards; the countryside is a few miles away for most people.
High diversity: we have high Indian, Asian, middle Eastern populations, as well as black and white.

What are the three biggest problems or weak links on your design site? (climate, water, access, vegetation, regulatory, interpersonal, etc)
Regulatory: HOA does not allow chickens (even if the township does), the lawn is required.
Practical: we are too busy to put in more than a few hours of work a week.
There is a presence of invasive species (fire ants, kudzu beetles, japanese beetles).

What have been the obstacles thus far in resolving each of these problems?
Regulatory: HOA has made clear that it would be very hard to change the HOA laws.
Practical: everybody in the family is busy with work/schooling/etc.
We are in the process of growing enough biodiverse plants to minimize invasive species.



What’s been the cost of these problems to date? (ecologically, financially, socially, other)
Minimal: we have to plan around the restrictions, and have made peace with the fact that we won’t be able to have chickens while the HOA exists.
Due to busyness, we haven’t been able to implement all of what we want.
Invasive species have been more of an annoyance than anything else, and are being minimized through biodiversity.

What are the greatest strengths or opportunities on your site?
Somewhat-established food forest and working aquaponics system
Our location is close to stores and other points of interest, as well as large cities.
Fiber internet access allows me to work from home.

What are the most likely natural disasters to happen in your region?
Hurricanes and strong wind / rainstorms.
Fires are unlikely now, but may be a factor if we are in an extended drought (which has happened earlier).

What are some strategies for resilience against those natural disasters?
Hurricane-ready structures can be built (although they are more expensive).
We stay mindful of fires and follow fire-safety best practices.

